Copyright distributed.net 1997 - All Rights Reserved
For use in distributed.net projects only.
Any other distribution or use of this source violates copyright.

Bugs Listing
  This is a text file that lists any bugs that have been found by either
  the coders, or by users.

06-03-98 - Jeff Lawson
  New Suggestion: some of the files produced by the client are still
  not made "fully qualified" by the Client::InternalGetLocalFilename()
  function.  The checkpoint files are this way.  On startup, if a
  filename is not a fully qualified filename (doesn't contain any '\'
  or '/' or start with a drive specifier), then the filename should be
  made into a fully qualified local file by using the above function.

6-03-98 - Kevin Bracey
  New Bug: Some parts of the program (mail.cpp in particular) print stuff
           irrespective of the quietmode setting.

6-03-98 - Kevin Bracey
  New Suggestion: Would it not be a good idea to move the number of CPUs
                  option to menu 1, next to the CPU-type setting? It's
                  definitely one of the main settings, and I know menu 4
                  was the last place I looked for it when setting 7022 up
                  on by dual-PII box for the first time.
  
6-01-98 - Remi Guyomarch
  New Bug: In 407+ (406?) a call to client.WriteConfig() overwrites the
           .ini file with parameters given on the command line. This
           is probably not the expected behaviour, at least from the 
           user point of view.
  Comments: (Silby) I'll look into this. It appears that this *only*
            occurs when the contest switches or the random keyspace
            changes. Fixing it should not be tough.
  More Comments: (Silby) This isn't new, actually. It's just more obvious
                 because I have more options in there. I'll make a new
                 procedure that only updates the randomprefix and
                 contest status.
  FIXED: (Silby) Ok, I added a new function (WriteContestandPrefixConfig).
         It only writes the randomprefix and contestdone settings to the
         file (making sure to load fresh from the .ini first.) I then
         changed all the calls to writeconfig aside from two to
         WriteContestandPrefixConfig. This appears to fix the bug for me.
         (If it does not, please comment, of course.)

5-31-98 - Oscar Chang
  New Bug: Between 403 and 406, there is a drop of almost 50k keys/sec on my
           K6-200 using the same CPU core. I've tried taking out the new
           CLI code and playing with the link order with no avail. Me and Daa
           are guessing that it could be the new timing code.

5-31-98 - Oscar Chang
  FIXED!!: The X key no longer works on Watcom compiles. It will display the
           message that it will quit after the next block is completed but,
           it just keeps going.
